disk pressure troubleshooting guide (#4513)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/edge/troubleshooting-edge-bundle/pods-in-pending-state.md

Reviewer: In line with the other troubleshooting sections, I'd expect to see symptoms before explaining the phenomenon, so the user knows that this section is applicable to them.

i.e. see events like <example kubectl output>, then maybe you're a victim of <disk pressure concept>

---
weight: 20
title: Node Disk Pressure and Pod Evictions in K3s
layout: redirect
---

> In K3s, the embedded kubelet enforces disk availability by using Kubernetes **Node-pressure eviction** mechanisms, with `/var/lib/rancher` serving as the primary node filesystem. When available disk space falls below the configured eviction thresholds, the node enters a **DiskPressure** state.

Reviewer: Saying that this is in a c8yedge-based install is important here - that's a more interesting keyword for such a user to see, as they won't necessarily remember which kubernetes distro they're using.

---
weight: 20

> title: Application Not Accessible and Pods in Pending State: Troubleshooting Node Disk Pressure in {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge Deployments (c8yedge Tool)

Reviewer: Not quite consistent with other troubleshooting section headings:
* More lowercase expected, we don't normally capitalize every word. (in the rendering, while the upper/lower case doesn't appear in the main body, the bar on the left does show it).
* The bit after ':' isn't necessary, we only describe the symptoms in our section headings.

layout: redirect
---

> If you installed Edge by using the `c8yedge` tool, the instance is not reachable, and `kubectl get pods -A` shows output similar to the following, the node is under disk pressure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you installed Edge by using the `c8yedge` tool, the instance is not reachable, and `kubectl get pods -A` shows output similar to the following, the node might be under disk pressure.
```

```shell
NAME                                                              READY   STATUS                   RESTARTS       AGE     IP           NODE      NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
apama-ctrl-scope-edge-deployment-7f4796c6c5-shnrr                 0/1     Pending                  0              2d21h   <none>       <none>    <none>           <none>
c8ycore-sts-0                                                     0/2     Pending                  0              2d21h   <none>       <none>    <none>           <none>
```

When you describe a pending pod, you see a scheduling error similar to the following:

```shell
kubectl describe pod <pod-name> -n <namespace>

# ...
Warning  FailedScheduling  12m (x832 over 2d21h)  default-scheduler  0/1 nodes are available: 1 node(s) had untolerated taint {node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure: }. preemption: 0/1 nodes are available: 1 Preemption is not helpful for scheduling.
```

> In {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge, the runtime uses **K3s** with an embedded kubelet. The kubelet maintains disk availability through Kubernetes **Node-pressure eviction**, using `/var/lib/rancher` as the primary node filesystem path. When free disk space drops below the configured eviction thresholds, the node reports **DiskPressure**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When installed with the c8yedge tool, the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Edge runtime uses **K3s** with an embedded kubelet. The kubelet maintains disk availability through Kubernetes **Node-pressure eviction**, using `/var/lib/rancher` as the primary node filesystem path. When free disk space drops below the configured eviction thresholds, the node reports **DiskPressure**.
```
